- [Instructor] This lesson will demonstrate how to set up
and execute our first pipeline using GitLab Runner.
To support our demonstration, we'll need a simple project
that we can build using GitLab Runner in GitLab CI.
I've created a simple Java application
that we'll be using for that purpose.
You can find the project
within the working files for the course.
Let's first set up that project within GitLab.
So as an administrator, I'm going to create a new project.
We're going to name this new project sample-ci.
You can keep it as a private repository,
and just go ahead and click on the Create Project button.
Now here's the neat thing about GitLab.
It always tells you what the next step is.
So if we scroll down some,
you'll see that it tells us how to set up our repository
if we're building a new repository if we already have files.
In our case, we already have a project,
so what we want to do is just copy the line
to add a remote.
We can easily init the project and do the commit.
It's just helpful to have the URL to your remote
so that it can be established.
Okay, so let's head over to the Terminal now,
and we'll complete the setup of the project.
So just to give you an idea
of where I'm at,
I've created a CI folder.
And then, within that CI folder,
I've placed our sample project.
So I'm going to cd into the sample project.
And then from there,
we're going to initiate a Git repository,
and we can then go ahead
and paste the line to add the remote.
At this point, we can then
add all of the files to the stage,
and now we're going to actually build out
a new file within our project.
This file is the gitlab-ci.yml file,
so this is a YAML file.
If you're familiar with Travis CI, it's very similar
to their approach to continuous integration.
Let's go ahead and create that file.
So it's .gitlab-ci.yml.
So we're going to create this file within Vim.
And let's talk a little bit about what this file does.
Inside of the file,
we can build out our continuous integration pipeline.
It's going to contain jobs that we would like to run
as part of our pipeline that will build our application.
So let's go ahead and create our first job,
and we're going to name this job build.
If you're familiar with YAML syntax, we use
a nested structure with semicolons and indentation
in order to build out this hierarchy for our commands.
So once we have our job name build,
we're going to use a script.
And then that script is actually a shell script,
so now we're working right on the command line.
So we can leverage something like Maven,
which is installed on our Ubuntu system,
and we can execute its compile goal.
So that's going to compile our project.
That's enough for our first job within our pipeline.
Let's go ahead and write this file out,
and then we're going to add it to the project.
And then let's commit these items.
So we'll say this is our Initial Commit.
And then what we're going to do
is we're going to push
to the master.
I'll use the -u flag since it's our first push.
And now we're going to supply the credentials.
I'm just going to use the root credentials here.
You need to make sure that this user
does have permissions on the repository.
Okay, so changes go up to the central repository.
And now, if we navigate into GitLab
and take a look at the CI/CD section,
you can see that it's running our pipeline.
That's because we've configured our pipeline to contain jobs
within the gitlab-ci-yml file.
So what we're looking at is a pipeline.
If we want to drill down into the pipeline to see the jobs,
all you need to do is click on the number for the pipeline.
And then inside of the pipeline,
we can take a look at the jobs that it consists of,
and there we see our build job.
We can also drill down into the job to see more details.
In fact, there, we're seeing the command line,
and we're able to be exposed
to the work that Maven has performed.
So you kinda get the hierarchy
of how these things are nested.
A pipeline contains many jobs,
and the jobs do the work to build our project.
The CI/CD pipeline is extremely valuable,
and it will help your team automate
the work of building software.